[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie stator and naga manchester
our headlines today millions of people
in the southeast
and east of england are preparing for
tougher cobra restrictions from midnight
amid a rising number of cases
worried about staff about stalk and
about saving
the business as thousands more
hospitality firms prepare to close
under tier 3 restrictions i'll speak to
the bosses preparing
for a bleak winter northern ireland
announces a new
six-week lockdown beginning on boxing
day including supermarkets being told
to close at 8pm for the first few days
after an evening phone call download
street warns the post-brexit trade talks
are in a serious situation
good morning it was a great night for
marcus rashford on the field he scored
twice to lift her manchester united up
to sixth in the premier league off it he
was recognised by fifa
for his work to try and end child food
poverty in the uk
catching up on one of the year's most
inspiring stories six-year-old tony
hudgell has raised more than one and a
half million pounds for charity
we'll take a look at how the money will
make a difference
good morning rain is back today heavy
for some of us flooding likely in south
wales
windy mild i've got your friday forecast
and
prospects for a brighter weekend
[Music]
good morning it's friday the 18th of
december our top story today tens of
millions of people all across
the uk have raced for tougher covered
restrictions amid growing concern about
rising coronavirus infections
from tomorrow swathes of eastern and
southern england will move into tier
three measures
northern ireland has announced it will
join wales by starting a new
lockdown after christmas day meaning
non-essential shops will close
along with pubs restaurants and
hairdressers aruna eingar has more
around the uk restrictions are
tightening
from saturday in england more than
two-thirds of the country will be in
tier three
with a number of areas including
bedfordshire and buckinghamshire
moving to the toughest level but there's
some respite
bristol and north somerset will move
from tier three
to tier two and herefordshire goes from
tier two
to one in cleveland in north somerset
dropping down to tier two is a cause for
celebration
yes yes yes hooray i can go out on my
70th birthday
on monday and celebrate in a pub locally
i think it's a mistake yeah i don't
probably think it's a mistake because
the surrounding areas are still
increasing bristol has gone down but i
i think we've just got just got to sort
of live with it
and and try and get over it hastings in
east sussex will now move
into tier three it is a shame to see
such a vibrant place as hastings old
town
seem to grind to a halt and it's such a
shame that all the
talented people that work and operate
here
are not doing that these restrictions
come into force just days before the
christmas relaxation
wales has already announced a
post-christmas lockdown
the first minister warned other nations
could follow
my prediction would be that in other
parts of the uk as
current restrictions are lessened they
too will find themselves with numbers
escalating
and more action needing to be taken and
last night in northern ireland a new
six-week lockdown from boxing day was
announced
non-essential shops will be closed and
all sporting events
banned it's very clear that we needed an
urgent intervention
i think this is the right decision by
the executive albeit i accept it'll be
challenging for many many people
we tried to get a balance in all of
these things but um it's clear that we
needed a longer
and deeper intervention with pressure on
the nhs mounting
difficult days lie ahead aruna ienger
bbc news
let's talk to our correspondent frankie
mcconnelly who's in windsor and
berkshire which is one of the counties
heading into tier three frankie morning
to you so new restrictions for lots of
people there
yes naga good morning these new
restrictions
are going to mean that just over
two-thirds of
england are going to be facing tier
three restrictions from
the weekend many of the areas moving
into tier three from
just past midnight tonight are like here
windsor in berkshire on the commuter
belt
surrounding london which went into tier
three just a few days ago on wednesday
now the government says these tightening
of the tightening of restrictions do
need to happen to help prevent the nhs
from being overwhelmed especially as we
move into january which is usually
one of the busiest months for hospitals
now restaurants bars pubs here
are going to feel the effects many will
have to close apart from those
who can open for takeaways in what's
usually the busiest
period for them this year um also a lot
of the area around here relies heavily
on tourism like windsor castle just
next to us with travel restrictions
coming into place that's not good news
but just a reminder this isn't full
lockdown in tier three you can still
meet in groups of up to
six in outdoor public spaces and the
shops
the gyms and the hairdressers will
remain open good to end on a positive
note frankie thanks very much frankie
mckinley there for us
boris johnson says talks to reach a
post-brexit trade agreement
are in a serious situation with a no
deal scenario now
very likely unless the eu position
changes substantially
the prime minister's comments came
following a call with the european
commission president ursa von der lion
last night
here's more from our political
correspondent chris mason in a
fortnight's time on new year's day the
uk's relationship with the european
union would have changed and
changed substantially and yet two weeks
out
we don't know if that new arrangement
will be with an overarching trade deal
or without one what we do know is the
differences between the two sides which
stand in the way of a deal
are significant last night there was
another phone call
between the prime minister and ursula
van der lyon the president of the
european commission
and guess what they agreed their teams
would carry on talking in a statement
after the call boris johnson said the
negotiations were now in a
serious situation time was very short
and it now looked very likely that
agreement would not be reached
unless the eu position changed
substantially
for those wanting a deal the eu's
comments contained
a splash of optimism urshler vonderlaan
said we welcome
substantial progress on many issues
however
big differences remain to be bridged in
particular on
fisheries bridging them will be very
challenging
and yes both sides acknowledge how much
fish can be caught in each other's
waters
isn't yet sorted out and the issue of
state aid is a problem too the support
either side can give to a domestic
industry
without breaching the terms of any
agreement the uk
doesn't like a suggestion from the eu
that support that comes from brussels
rather than a member state should be
exempt
from any limits on state aid both sides
do want to do a deal
if they can find one that is mutually
acceptable
but that is no guarantee
one will happen chris mason bbc news
a second coronavirus vaccine is on the
verge of approval
in the united states the head of the
food and drugs administration has said
he'll move quickly to authorize the
moderna vaccine
allowing the company to begin shipping
millions of doses the us which has just
begun
boiling out the fisa biontech jab has
recorded more coronavirus deaths than
any other country england's second
largest police force has been placed in
special measures after an investigation
found that it had failed to record more
than
80 000 crimes in the space of a year her
majesty's inspectorate of constabulary
said it was deeply troubled at how
greater manchester police
had closed cases without a proper
investigation it also found that a
higher proportion of violent crime
wasn't recorded
including domestic abuse royal mail
says people in some parts of the uk may
be receiving their post later than
expected as it deals with an
unprecedented volume of parcels thanks
to the rise in online
shopping internet orders for the first
two weeks of december jumped by more
than 50 percent
compared to last year that's according
to the online retail trade body
the imrg the union representing postal
workers said
its members are doing their best to cope
with both increased demand
and the complications of working within
covert safety rules
can you imagine going to work and
obviously we love our posties and
you know the work they're doing
generally and this year all the more but
can you imagine going to work into that
sorting office and seeing
that pile of parcels you you would just
you'd look at it wouldn't you and just
go where do i begin oh well i suppose
you begin at the top
well and if you if you need evidence of
the you know the
crunch they're facing any post office at
the moment the queues
outside uh huge the workload they're
trying to deal with it's enormous and
also of course
they're um socially distance aren't
there so there are fewer people
in the places so to do the work and
their different shifts as well
um maybe you've had experience of this
maybe you are experiencing this right
now
get in touch with us if you can or even
if you just want to say mention your
posty who's doing a great job
let us know get in touch the usual ways
twitter email us it'd be good to hear
from you
time now is ten minutes past six that
means it's time for us to have a look at
the weather nick's got the details for
us this morning how are you nick
i'm very well thank you good morning to
you both good morning to you the post is
out in the rain
again today after yesterday sunshine the
wet weather is back the winds will be
picking up as well
southwest england and parts of wales
seeing the higher rain totals the
greater chance of disruption but
particularly
in south wales where the met office has
an amber warning in force
flooding likely up to a hundred
millimeters of rain falling in some
spots before the day
is done from this area of low pressure
bringing these weather fronts are away
with the heavy rain and the isobars
tightening that means the wind
picking up as well cloudy damp starts
out there there will be a bit of
brightness this morning in scotland and
northern england that's not going to
last because the rain
soon sweeps into all but east anglia and
southeast england and the brighter
colours showing up here indicating where
there will be some of that
heavy rain and strong winds too some
gusts up to around 60 miles an hour
across parts of southwest england very
windy with the rain
in the west particularly through wales
and western parts of england again with
the higher rain totals here
the rain pushing in across scotland too
a few brighter breaks still around the
murray firth at times
and northern ireland after the rain
brightening up this afternoon with sunny
spells and the odd shower
very mild start to the day very mild
afternoon
but then again it will be very windy but
temperatures may be up to around 15
degrees celsius
in one or two spots the rain will drag
its heels this evening and tonight
across wales and again western parts of
england
this is allowing those totals to mount
before gradually
it moves further east overnight reaching
eastern parts of england
as we start the day tomorrow behind it
clearer skies but a few heavy showers on
what will be a mild and blustery night
and low pressure still with us over the
weekend you can see it out here to the
west the
weather front spokes around that wheel
of low pressure bringing in bands of
showers
our way but as i hinted at the start of
the program
around those showers there will be some
brighter skies there will be some
sunshine
occasionally this weekend and much more
about what we can expect for the weekend
weather as we go through the rest of the
morning but that's it for now
thanks nick we'll speak to you later 12
minutes past 6 friday morning let's have
a look at the
papers you'll be opening this morning
many papers
lead on the extension of tier 3 covered
restrictions to large parts of southern
england daily mirror
carries the headline tears before bedlam
a reference to warnings from some health
experts
that mixing during the festive season
could lead to a spike in new cases
the daily telegraph reports on the
latest brexit talks the paper says the
prime minister has warned that a deal
is drifting away but could still be done
this weekend if brussels gives ground on
fishing rights and state
subsidies let's have a look at the
guardian reporting that many pupils will
have a delayed return to the classroom
in the new year something we'll be
looking at quite closely this morning
schools minister nick gibb will be with
us
most secondary school students in
england have been told to work from home
for the first week of next term it's to
allow more time for state schools to
prepare
for a roll out of mass covert testing
and the sun features a picture of paul
mccartney on its front page and the
headline
get back ah i see what it's done the
paper says the 78 year old former beatle
who wrote and sang on this
band's hit get back has vowed to have
the kovid jab as soon as he is allowed
so do you want to go christmas or do you
want to go boring
what christmas or boring boring please
there's a surprise um so a calendar did
you find the calendar
oh yes was it so this isn't this is no
no no it's not an advent calendar it's a
calendar for next year many people will
be planning for the first of january
this is the dull men club dull men's
club
calendar what makes it so dull so it has
various pictures
um and um there's a telegraph pole
enthusiast a washing machine restorer
and a security envelope collector um and
there's a man who spends 10 hours a day
doing
jigsaws and a student who photographs
wet floor signs
these are all featured in this calendar
this is a gentleman this is um james
here who's fascinated by the patterns on
the insides of envelopes
the graphic patterns and so all of these
have featured um
in the dull men's clubs calendar so is
it a calendar of
dull days people's dull things that they
do yes
but you know one person dull is another
person it's interesting isn't it and i
thought you would enjoy this the world's
largest crane completed its biggest lift
to date yesterday
it's a 250 meter tall um crane it's a
sarens sgc
250. um it's also known as big carl
lifted a 575 ton
steel ring at hinkley point sea power
station in somerset
it's capable of lifting up to 5 000.
this happened yesterday
yeah we're not we we should have seen
these pictures
this is some kind of you know what
that's just a tenth of its ability
they are incredible things big cranes
are extraordinary things
um i just want to draw your attention
you can't really look at this because
it's just birthdays
but i'll draw your attention a couple of
birthdays happening to you across the
ages
rayleigh otter good fellas actually you
know iconic
what do you think 67 good guess 66.
uh brad pitts it's brad pitt's birthday
today 52
57 and the last one i give you this
morning
uh crossing into a slightly different
era keith richards rolling stones guitar
82. okay that's not so good for him
he's 77 years old i nearly went 178. no
no you didn't you went 82. he's 77.
many congratulations to all of those
people who undoubtedly will be watching
us
this morning so happy birthday to all
three who are no doubt
watching us i like the part six on a
friday morning i do like our birthday
guessing game
i do like it we do play that a lot
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news